
Dear JMM Minicourse #14 registrants,

Nick and I look forward to working with you on Saturday and Monday as part of Minicourse 14 (Teaching Statistics using R and RStudio).  We're writing to remind you to bring a laptop to the workshop.  That will allow you to "work" as well as "shop", trying things out on your own machine as we lead you through some activities and present some aspects of our approach to use R and RStudio with students.

We are planning to use a cloud-based version of RStudio for the workshop.  This should allow you to get up and running quickly, even if you have never used RStudio before, but does depend on the quality of the convention center internet service.  

If you have time, we encourage you to also set up R and RStudio locally on your laptop.  It is easy to do and provides some insurance against poor internet service.  Instructions for doing so, along with some things you can do if you are unfamiliar with R or want to get a head start on the material we will cover in the Minicourse are listed below.  While none of this is necessary, you may find that a little preparation on your part will allow you to make the most of our limited time together.  If you have the opportunity to review some of the background material and install R and RStudio you will be able to jump in immediately.  

Suggested steps (which work for Windows, Mac, or Linux users):

(1) download and peruse the first few chapters of the "Start Teaching using R" vignette available at http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/mosaic/index.html  

Don't print it, we'll be bringing copies to the Minicourse.

(2) install R (see instructions in section 2.1 of the "Start Teaching Statistics using R" vignette)

(3) install Rstudio (see instructions in section 2.1 of the "Start Teaching Statistics using R" vignette)

(4) run RStudio, then install the "mosaic" and "mosaicData" packages (see section 5.3)

Note: We have just updated the mosaic package.  Sources and Windows binaries are on CRAN now, Mac binaries should be available soon.  If you use a Mac and want to be sure you have the most recent version, you can install from source using

	install.packages("mosaic", type="source")

The current version is 0.9.2-2.

(5) download and print the "Minimal R for Intro Stats" vignette to peruse as you make your way to San Antonio.  

We will bring copies of this as well, but it is short and if you might print a copy for airplane reading.


If you don't have time for any of this between now and Saturday morning, don't worry.  We'll help everyone get up to speed at our first session.


Questions?  Issues?  Problems?  Don't hesitate to be in touch.  We look forward to seeing you on Saturday,


Randy (and Nick)

